README.md, before:

<p align="center">
    <img src="https://raw.githubusercontent.com/fergusstrange/embedded-postgres/master/gopher.png" width="150">
</p>

<p align="center">
<a href="https://godoc.org/github.com/fergusstrange/embedded-postgres"><img src="https://godoc.org/github.com/fergusstrange/embedded-postgres?status.svg" alt="Godoc" /></a>
<a href='https://coveralls.io/github/fergusstrange/embedded-postgres?branch=master'><img src='https://coveralls.io/repos/github/fergusstrange/embedded-postgres/badge.svg?branch=master' alt='Coverage Status' /></a>
<a href="https://github.com/fergusstrange/embedded-postgres/actions"><img src="https://github.com/fergusstrange/embedded-postgres/workflows/Embedded%20Postgres/badge.svg" alt="Build Status" /></a>
<a href="https://goreportcard.com/report/github.com/fergusstrange/embedded-postgres"><img src="https://goreportcard.com/badge/github.com/fergusstrange/embedded-postgres" alt="Go Report Card" /></a>
</p>

# embedded-postgres

Run a real Postgres database locally on Linux, OSX or Windows as part of another Go application or test.

When testing this provides a higher level of confidence than using any in memory alternative. It also requires no other external dependencies outside of the Go build ecosystem.

Heavily inspired by Java projects [zonkyio/embedded-postgres](https://github.com/zonkyio/embedded-postgres) and [opentable/otj-pg-embedded](https://github.com/opentable/otj-pg-embedded) and reliant on the great work being done by [zonkyio/embedded-postgres-binaries](https://github.com/zonkyio/embedded-postgres-binaries) in order to fetch precompiled binaries from [Maven](https://mvnrepository.com/artifact/io.zonky.test.postgres/embedded-postgres-binaries-bom).

## Installation

embedded-postgres uses Go modules and as such can be referenced by release version for use as a library. Use the following to add the latest release to your project. 

```bash
go get -u github.com/fergusstrange/embedded-postgres
``` 

## How to use

This library aims to require as little configuration as possible, favouring overridable defaults

| Configuration  | Default Value                               |
| -------------- | ------------------------------------------- |
| Username       | postgres                                    |
| Password       | postgres                                    |
| Database       | postgres                                    |
| Version        | 12.1.0                                      |
| RuntimePath    | $USER_HOME/.embedded-postgres-go/extracted  |
| Port           | 5432                                        |
| StartTimeout   | 15 Seconds                                  |

A single Postgres instance can be created, started and stopped as follows
```go
postgres := embeddedpostgres.NewDatabase()
err := postgres.Start()

// Do test logic

err := postgres.Stop()
```
or with created with custom configuration
```go
logger := &bytes.Byffer{}
postgres := NewDatabase(DefaultConfig().
            Username("beer").
            Password("wine").
            Database("gin").
            Version(V12).
            RuntimePath("/tmp").
            Port(9876).
            StartTimeout(45 * time.Second).
            Logger(logger))
err := postgres.Start()

// Do test logic

err := postgres.Stop()
```

It should be noted that if `postgres.Stop()` is not called then the child Postgres process will not be released and the caller will block.

## Examples

There are a number of realistic representations of how to use this library in [examples](https://github.com/fergusstrange/embedded-postgres/tree/master/examples). 

## Credits

- [Gopherize Me](https://gopherize.me) Thanks for the awesome logo template.
- [zonkyio/embedded-postgres-binaries](https://github.com/zonkyio/embedded-postgres-binaries) Without which the precompiled Postgres binaries would not exist for this to work. 

## Contributing

View the [contributing guide](CONTRIBUTING.md).

Commit message:

make persistence and path of db data directory configurable (#19)
* add support for persistent database data

- config: add field and setter for db data path
- do not delete/reinit db data dir if path is set
- data dir must exist and the pg (major) version
  must match used postgres version
- tests: adjust existing test to new initDatabase function signature
- tests: add test for resuse data option
- platform test: test PG_VERSION file to match requested version
- add doc about DataPath config option

README.md, after:

<p align="center">
    <img src="https://raw.githubusercontent.com/fergusstrange/embedded-postgres/master/gopher.png" width="150">
</p>

<p align="center">
<a href="https://godoc.org/github.com/fergusstrange/embedded-postgres"><img src="https://godoc.org/github.com/fergusstrange/embedded-postgres?status.svg" alt="Godoc" /></a>
<a href='https://coveralls.io/github/fergusstrange/embedded-postgres?branch=master'><img src='https://coveralls.io/repos/github/fergusstrange/embedded-postgres/badge.svg?branch=master' alt='Coverage Status' /></a>
<a href="https://github.com/fergusstrange/embedded-postgres/actions"><img src="https://github.com/fergusstrange/embedded-postgres/workflows/Embedded%20Postgres/badge.svg" alt="Build Status" /></a>
<a href="https://goreportcard.com/report/github.com/fergusstrange/embedded-postgres"><img src="https://goreportcard.com/badge/github.com/fergusstrange/embedded-postgres" alt="Go Report Card" /></a>
</p>

# embedded-postgres

Run a real Postgres database locally on Linux, OSX or Windows as part of another Go application or test.

When testing this provides a higher level of confidence than using any in memory alternative. It also requires no other external dependencies outside of the Go build ecosystem.

Heavily inspired by Java projects [zonkyio/embedded-postgres](https://github.com/zonkyio/embedded-postgres) and [opentable/otj-pg-embedded](https://github.com/opentable/otj-pg-embedded) and reliant on the great work being done by [zonkyio/embedded-postgres-binaries](https://github.com/zonkyio/embedded-postgres-binaries) in order to fetch precompiled binaries from [Maven](https://mvnrepository.com/artifact/io.zonky.test.postgres/embedded-postgres-binaries-bom).

## Installation

embedded-postgres uses Go modules and as such can be referenced by release version for use as a library. Use the following to add the latest release to your project. 

```bash
go get -u github.com/fergusstrange/embedded-postgres
``` 

## How to use

This library aims to require as little configuration as possible, favouring overridable defaults

| Configuration  | Default Value                               |
| -------------- | ------------------------------------------- |
| Username       | postgres                                    |
| Password       | postgres                                    |
| Database       | postgres                                    |
| Version        | 12.1.0                                      |
| RuntimePath    | $USER_HOME/.embedded-postgres-go/extracted  |
| DataPath       | empty, results in *RuntimePath*/data        |
| Port           | 5432                                        |
| StartTimeout   | 15 Seconds                                  |

The *RuntimePath* directory is erased and recreated on each start and therefor not
suitable for persistent data. If a persistent data location is required, set
*DataPath* to a directory outside of *RuntimePath*.
If the *RuntimePath* directory is empty or already initialized but with an incompatible
postgres version, it gets cleared and reinitialized.

A single Postgres instance can be created, started and stopped as follows
```go
postgres := embeddedpostgres.NewDatabase()
err := postgres.Start()

// Do test logic

err := postgres.Stop()
```
or with created with custom configuration
```go
logger := &bytes.Byffer{}
postgres := NewDatabase(DefaultConfig().
            Username("beer").
            Password("wine").
            Database("gin").
            Version(V12).
            RuntimePath("/tmp").
            Port(9876).
            StartTimeout(45 * time.Second).
            Logger(logger))
err := postgres.Start()

// Do test logic

err := postgres.Stop()
```

It should be noted that if `postgres.Stop()` is not called then the child Postgres process will not be released and the caller will block.

## Examples

There are a number of realistic representations of how to use this library in [examples](https://github.com/fergusstrange/embedded-postgres/tree/master/examples). 

## Credits

- [Gopherize Me](https://gopherize.me) Thanks for the awesome logo template.
- [zonkyio/embedded-postgres-binaries](https://github.com/zonkyio/embedded-postgres-binaries) Without which the precompiled Postgres binaries would not exist for this to work. 

## Contributing

View the [contributing guide](CONTRIBUTING.md).
